Update documentation to describe new format for LLM configuration (#540)
sourcegraph/docs: docs/cody/clients/model-configuration.mdx

# LLM Model Configuration

<p className="subtitle">This guide will walk you through the steps to customize the LLM models available from your Sourcegraph Enterprise instance.</p>

> <Callout type="note">For Sourcegraph Cloud customers, configuring the available LLM models requires contacting Sourcegraph's tech support.</Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="note">For Sourcegraph Cloud customers, configuring the available LLM models requires contacting your Sourcegraph account team representative</Callout>

> Starting with Sourcegraph 5.5.4+ Sourcegraph Enterprise supports the ability to choose between different LLM models, allowing developers to use the best model for their current needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Sourcegraph 5.5.4+ Sourcegraph Enterprise supports the ability to choose between different LLM models, allowing developers to use the best model for Cody Chat as needed.
```

> This is accomplished exposing much more flexible configuration options for Cody when using Sourcegraph Enterprise. The newer style of configuration is described next. However, you can still use the [Older style "Completions" Configuration](#Older-style-Completions-Configuration).

Reviewer: This is okay for Aug 7th, but I suspect that we will want to have better 'customer facing' names in Sept

cc: @kelvinyap

| `modelFilters` (optional) | Filters for which models to include from Cody Gateway.                                   |

**Model Filters**

The `"modelFilters"` section is how you restrict which Cody Gateway models are made available to your Sourcegraph Enterprise instance's users.

The first field is the `"statusFilter"`. Each LLM model is given a label by Sourcegraph as per its release, such as "stable", beta", or "experimental". By default, all models available on
Cody Gateway are exposed. Using the category filter ensures that only models with a particular category are made available to your users.

The `"allow"` and `"deny"` fields, are arrays of model references for what models should or should not be included. These values accept wild cards.

The following examples illusrate how to use all these settings in conjunction:

```json
"modelConfiguration": {
  "sourcegraph": {
    "modelFilters": {
      // Only allow "beta" and "stable" models.
      // Not "experimental" or "deprecated".
      "statusFilter": ["beta", "stable"],

      // Allow any models provided by Anthropic or OpenAI.

>       "allow": [

Reviewer: @chrsmith YOU HAD IT RIGHT all along!! HAHA 😆

        "anthropic::*",
        "openai::*"
      ],

      // Do not include any models with the Model ID containing "turbo",
      // or any from AcmeCo.
      "deny": [
        "*turbo*",

>         "acmeco::*"

Reviewer: Should we link this to the Supported Models Matrix, with the configuration names ?

      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Default Models

The `"modelConfiguration"` setting also contains a `"defaultModels"` field that allows you to specify the LLM model used depending on the situation. If no default is specified, or refers to a model that isn't found, it will silently fallback to a suitable alternative.

> You can leave these settings blank and have reasonable defaults be chosen for you, or you can express the models explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 use reasonable defaults chosen for you by Sourcegraph
```

```json
  ...
  "modelConfiguration": {
    "defaultModels": {
      "chat": "anthropic::2023-06-01::claude-3.5-sonnet",
      "codeCompletion": "anthropic::2023-06-01::claude-3.5-sonnet",
      "fastChat": "anthropic::2023-06-01::claude-3-haiku"
    }
  }
  ...
```

The format of these strings is a "Model Reference", which is a format for uniquely identifying each LLM model exposed from your Sourcegraph instance.

## Advanced Configruation

For most administrators, relying on the LLM models made available by Cody Gateway is sufficient. However, if even more customization is required, you can configure your own LLM providers and models.

> <Callout type="warning">Defining your own LLM providers and models is an advanced use-case and requires care to get the correct results. It also may bypass protections to ensure compatibiloity between your Sourcegraph instance and LLMs. If you need help contact your Sourcegraph account executive.</Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="warning">Defining your own LLM providers and models is an advanced use-case and requires care to get the correct results. It also may bypass protections to ensure compatibility between your Sourcegraph instance and LLMs. If you need help contact your Sourcegraph account executive.</Callout>
```

### Overview

The `"modelConfiguration"` section exposes two fields `"providerOverrides"` and `"modelOverrides"`. These may override any Sourcegraph-supplied data, or simply introduce new ones entirely.

### Provider Configuration

A "provider" a way to organize LLM models. Typically a provider would be referring to the company that produced the model. Or the specific API/service being used to access the model. But conceptually, it's just a namespace.

By defining a provider override in your Sourcegraph site configuration, you are introducing a new namespace to contain models. Or customize the existing provider namespace supplied by Sourcegraph. (e.g. all `"anthropic"` models.)

The following configuration shippet defines a single provider override with the ID `"anthropic-direct"`.

```json
"modelConfiguration": {
  // Do not use any Sourcegraph-supplied models.
  "sourcegraph": null,

  // Introduce our own, custom provider "anthropic-direct".
  "providerOverrides": [
    {
      "id": "anthropic-direct",

>       "displayName": "Anthropic models, sent directly to anthropic.com",

Reviewer: This display name shows up on the logs and only the logs, right?

Author: Currently, I don't know if we show the display name _anywhere_. The provider _ID_ will show up in logs (since it is baked into the model references.)

The intent of adding a separate display name field was so that we could display this human-friendly text to users, e.g. when differentiating between various flavors of Claude in the Cody IDE extension.

Reviewer: Got it - thanks for confirming Chris!

      // The server-side config section defines how this provider operates.
      "serverSideConfig": {
        "type": "anthropic",
        "accessToken": "sk-ant-api03-xxxxxxxxx",
        "endpoint": "https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages"
      },

      // The default model configuration provides defaults for all LLM
      // models using this provider.
      "defaultModelConfig": {
        "capabilities": [
          "chat",
          "autocomplete"
        ],

>         "contextWindow": {

Reviewer: @slimsag How does smartContextWindow come into all this configuration btw? Do I get it if I don't change the contextWindow on the models that are supported?

Author: Currently, if you are using the new modelconfig version of site config, we set smartContext to "disabled". See https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/e5178a6bc0e0f2f5208f9dedb0c226661c881d98/cmd/frontend/internal/modelconfig/resolver.go#L94-L107.

I'm not sure what the ramifications of that is, since we are passing the more specialized context window sizes down to the cody client with the new model metadata. (So rather than _only_ using `[siteconfig]completions.maxChatTokens` we instead have a per-model value, defined in the configuration here.)

Does that all sound right? If using modelconfig should we default smartContext to "enabled"?

Reviewer: It's probably best to leave that enabled by default. The Client side logic will take care of whether the models are supported by it or not (can you confirm this @abeatrix ?)

Reviewer 2: @jamesmcnamara is probably the best person to answer this for the client side

Reviewer 3: I am not familiar with the smart context window, but from what I can see I see most of the uses related to smart context window are for old style models and the few references I see to the models specific context window are don't intersect with smart context feature enablement (i.e. they don't seem to care if that flag is enabled or not they just get the models context window).

But I am not familiar with this issue so I could be wrong, there might be some sneaky call at the top of the tree that does actually care about that setting.

| `"huggingface-tgi"`  | [Hugging Face Text Generation Interface](https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/en/index)     |

### Model Configuration

With a provider defined, we can now specify custom models using that provider by adding them to the `"modelOverrides"` section.

**Model Reference**

The following configuration snippet defines a custom model, using the `"anthropic-direct"` provider from the previous example.

```json
"modelConfiguration": {
  ...
  "modelOverrides": [
    {
      "modelRef": "anthropic-direct::2023-06-01::claude-3-sonnet",
      "displayName": "Claude 3 Sonnet",
      "modelName": "claude-3-sonnet-20240229",
      "contextWindow": {
        "maxInputTokens": 10000,
        "maxOutputTokens": 4000
      },

      "capabilities": ["chat", "autocomplete"],
      "category": "balanced",
      "status": "stable"
    },
  ],
  ...
}
```

Most of the configuration fields are self-explanitory, such as labeling the model's category ("stable", "beta") or category ("accuracy", "speed"). The more important fields are described below:

> **modelRef**. Each model is given a unique identify, referred to as a model reference or "mref". This is a string of the form `${providerId}::${apiVersionId}::${modelId}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**modelRef**. Each model is given a unique identifier, referred to as a model reference or "mref". This is a string of the form `${providerId}::${apiVersionId}::${modelId}`.
```

**contextWindow**. The context window is the number of "tokens" sent to an LLM. Either in the amount of contextual data sent in the LLM prompt (e.g. the question, relevant snippets, etc.) and the maximum size of the output allowed in the response. These values directly control factors such as the time it takes to respond to a prompt and the cost of the LLM request. And each LLM model or provider may have their own limits as well.

**modelName**. The model _name_, is the value required by the LLM model's API provider. In this example, the `modelRef` defined the model's ID as `claude-3-sonnet` but the `modelName` was the more specific "claude-3-sonnet-20240229".

**capabilities**. The capabilities of a model determine which situations the model can be used. For example, models only supported for "autocomplete" will not be available for Cody chats.

> # Older style "Completions" Configuration

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Legacy Completions Configuration
```
Let's call it legacy instead of older. Also we should make it an H2.
